- [ ] in the last book of the 1st series, bring Chris back in Spirit while Alex is comatose. "I thought your spirit was in the lily?" "No, my body turned into the lily, my spirit did not. It's like people carrying around someone's ashes."  
- [ ] after Alex finally comes back from being comatose, he gains certain abilities and is able to control spirits to a degree, and is even able to banish Malefik. It comes in handy when he is sent to the bottom of Tartarus. Possibly is corrupted by Abisusolas  
- [ ] Alex's comatose state, book 5. Cyril, the Oracle, visits him due to compulsions that were happening. He, for some reason, realizes that he's fighting a battle of his own with Malefic. He opens his eye lids to see that half of his eye is black while the other half is glowing white, symbolizing the battle that is ensuing inside. The dark and the light are even at this point. Cyril exclaims, get Athanius Pryor now! The leader of the house of Magic. Athanius comes and reveals that he truly is in the midst of the battle between Malefic, mainly two which are very high ranking. Athanius tries to interfer and the chapter ends. The next chapter is Alex's point of view. He's in the midst of battling two Malefic, Moxian and Coclan, who are high up in the ranks of Malefik. These two demons attack him unwavering, trying to break him and overpower him to destruction. Then Athanius interfers. Alex sees this light appear that radiates the dark hall he's engulfed in. He is then able to defeat the  
- [ ] lesser of the two, Coclan. Moxian repels the light and Alex is once again locked in never ending combat. Coclan ceases to exist, or at least is destroyed in the sense that he is no longer a Malefic. Back in the physical world, Athanius falls back against the wall. He explains that Alex was fighting two Malefic by the name of Moxian and Coclan, very old Malefic. Due to his help, Alex overpowered Coclan the Lesser and cast him out. "Moxian casted away my magic. I cannot help him any further besides keeping his spirit alive. Moxian will not allow me to enter again." Alex is helped in this battle by both Chris' and Ulysses' spirits. His son who died, along with his parents and all those who died in the series, also appear to him at one point or another. Chris is always guiding him through the entire time. He fights Daniel, the Malefic, at some point, only he has a new name. He only discovers it's Daniel after he's battling him for awhile. The Malefic's name is Proditan (Traitor).  
- [ ] Moxian, the chief malefic, is destroyed by the end of book 5  
- [ ] The story takes place with the destitute army of Pridurlas retreating south after their defeat at Torbanum.  
- [ ] Alex sees Chris, Crasio, Michael, Collin, Ulysses, his dead son, his parents, and others that had died. Even Chancellor Thorn who had died just a few moments before him.  
- [ ] Emily finds out she’s pregnant again with a daughter. The daughter will be named Elora.