It starts in Emily's point of view of the ending of the prior book. Alex is barely alive and in a catonic state. His wound is already infected. Evolan charges with a small group afterward. He is killed in the charge after single-handedly taking on about a hundred monsters. He sets off one last explosive, killing him and all the creatures around him. He went off with a bang. There was nothing left afterward. Travicax and Rilea are seen dead near each other afterward. The army of Pridurlas is forced to retreat. Emily and Nadaria take Alex's body to Satilius. They strap Alex to his dragon, who then takes flight with Nadaria. Emily follows after them on Averama. They leave the army and fly continuously to the ruins of Tirvalis. They rest in Alex's house. There's a massive hole in one side. Emily and Nadaria have a conversation while Alex lays comatose on his bed. Nadaria comforts Emily concerning Alex. Emily and Averama have an internal conversation as well. The story shifts to Alex's point of view as Emily goes to sleep.  
Alex finds himself in a dark, black room. The walls, ceiling, and floor seem to be made from darkness itself. There is a raised platform in the middle with a block of solid darkness. As Alex is looking at this block, a pure white light appears on top of it. The light encompasses the entire block, spreading into the platform itself. In a flash of light, a person appears on top of the block. He is glowing white. It's Theren. "Theren?" Alex asked. "Hello, Alex," Theren said softly. (Theren is a human, not a Capri in the afterlife).  
It is morning, Emily and the others fly to Morram Durlas, where the Elari and Nadaria start to operate on Alex. Emily begins to feel sick. They take her to a nearby room and perform a few tests.  
Back in Alex's perspective, he's talking to Theren. "I thought your spirit was in the lily?" "No, my body turned into the lily. My spirit did not. It's like people carrying around someone's ashes." "Why am I here?" "You are in between life and death. There is no other way to talk to you. You are in danger, however." Theren explains that the malefic will try to corrupt him and turn him into what they did to Veridex. A mindless. It is not a battle that can be won by the sword, or arrow for that matter. Voralis appears to him, among others. Then two malefic appear. Moxian (Thorvald), the chief malefic, and Coclan, another malefic. A battle of deception begins.  
Back in Emily's perspective, they find out that Emily is pregnant, and has been for a few months. The army of Pridurlas arrives. The Vistes comes to Alex and realizes what is happening to Alex. He opens his eyelids to find that his eyes are glowing half white and half black. The dark and the light are even at this point. Sirilan gets Athanius Pryor, the leader of the Division of Magic, to come. Athanius attempts to interfere. Matt (Vitruvius from Seven Rings) appears and offers help as Moxian is Thorvald. "I could theoretically destroy every malefic, but I put limitations on myself that I cannot undo. I can help to a certain extent, but I cannot just take this away. I hope that I can do enough to change the tide in Alex's favor." Vitruvius/Verinthinus sees Thorvald/Moxian as his biggest failure.  
In Alex's point of view, he is in the midst of battling the two malefic. They are trying to overpower him with despair. Alex can tell when Verithinus and Athanius interfere as he sees a light appear that radiates the dark hall. He is then able to defeat Coclan.  
Back in the physical world, Athanius falls back against the wall. He explains what is happening in Alex's head. Emily listens intently. Alex is helped by those who died before him. This continues until Alex defeats Moxian. At the same time, the doctors finish their operation. Alex awakes to Emily's face. He is tired and worn out. The story ends with someone kidnapping Alex in his sleep.  
  
Almedin POV  
He stays with the army as they retreat.