Morthadim appeared from amidst the army, towering over almost everything. He dragged along steel blade by his side. His black cloak still covered his entire body, shrouding his face in darkness. He didn’t wear any armor, but he also didn’t need to; no one could touch him. He calmly walked towards the main gate, the entire army of Nindurlas waiting for him.  
Chancellor Thorn stepped out from among the crowd, sword in hand. He held his shield up, preparing for the worst. Without a single word, Morthadim raised his sword and let it bounce off of the Chancellor’s shield. The Chancellor staggered backward but quickly steadied himself. He charged forward, sword raised. Their swords clashed, sparks flew from the colliding steel. Thorn dodged and weaved around Morthadim, not leaving the giant a second to be on the offensive.  
Then in an instant everything changed. Morthadim swung his sword around and again clashed it against the Chancellor’s expelling it from his hand. The Chancellor fell to the ground, stunned. Before anything else could happen, Morthadim pierced his sword into the fallen hero and twisted it. The Chancellor grimaced in pain before his body went limp. Morthadim pulled his sword from the lifeless corpse that was once the Chancellor of Aramus, hefting it back above his waist.  
Alex stepped out from among the crowd, sword to his side. He took one step forward before he extended his sword toward Morthadim, his shield at his side. Alex shouted, “This nonsense has gone on for far too long Morthadim, today your army falls! Defenders of Aramus, prove your worth! Take down the enemy once and for all! Charge!”  
With those words, the army of Nindurlas charged, locking into combat with the army of Death. Alex slowly walked forward, steering right for Morthadim. They locked eyes, preparing to fight. Alex held his shield out in front of him, preparing to swing with his sword arm. He swung, his sword clashed against Morthadim’s blade. They became heated into an intense duel, neither one letting off their guard. Neither risked any move that could leave them open.  
Morthadim hefted his sword into Alex's shield, sending him backwards. He quickly recovered, clashing his sword once again with Morthadim's blade. He parried a lunge made by Morthadim. (insert something to cause Alex's shield to collapse) Alex with both hands swung his sword. Their swords locked together. Alex looked at his sword, he felt it starting to bend. He thought to himself, If I don't get out of this, my blade will break.  
Immediately, Alex spun away as Morthadim lunged forward. Alex swept his sword across Morthadim's side, to which Morthadim responded by heaving his sword right towards Alex. Alex rolled away, jumping to his feet to face Morthadim once more. He charged. As Morthadim swung at him, he slid underneath him, he slashed Morthadim's left leg and exapnded his shield, which he swung into the back of his right knee. Morthadim fell flat on his face, but straightaway rose again. He kicked Alex in the face with his good leg, which sent him to the ground. Morthadim raised his sword to end him, but Alex rolled out of the way just in time and back on his feet.  
Morthadim became even more aggressive. Alex could hardly keep up, dodging and weaving around him. Then, Morthadim once again heaved his sword at Alex, who blocked it. They were once again in a sword lock. Before Alex had time to do anything, Morthadim headbutted him, knocking him back a couple of steps. Before Alex could recover, Morthadim had plunged his sword into his stomach.  
Alex gasped and looked down at the blade that was in him. He glanced at Morthadim, who had an evil grin on his stone gray face. Morthadim quickly pulled his sword out of Alex's gut as Alex sunk to his knees. Morthadim raised his sword once more to end him, but was stopped when a single arrow flew towards him. He easily deflected it, but his attention was now to the side.  
Alex painfully glanced over to see Emily, bow in hand, notching another arrow to her bow. "Archers to the ready!" she yelled. "Aim! Fire!"  
With that she let her arrow fly, and with it came a hundred more. All aimed well past Alex, but close to Morthadim. Morthadim didn't hesitate before he limped away into his army. He disappeared into the masses, but the monsters around him were massacred.  
Alex could hardly process this. He watched as Emily rushed to his side. He fell into her loving arms once more. Demetria came rushing in as well, immediately trying to save his life. A white glow emanated from her hands.  
Alex just laid there, staring into Emily's beautiful sapphire eyes, realizing that they may be the last thing he sees. For a short moment there's silence. He sees tears form in those beautiful sapphire eyes and start to fall. He opened his mouth to speak.  
"Emily, I need you to press forward. I need you to be strong," he coughed.  
"Alex," she muttered. "I need you to stay."  
"I don't think that's my choice," he croaked. "Don't cry."  
"Don't go. Stay with me," she pleaded. "I need you."  
"You're beautiful, Emily. I love you so much."  
"I love you too. I love you more than anything. So please, don't go," she sobbed.  
"It's okay. It's all going to be okay," he choked out. He paused for a moment. He felt so cold. Almost all energy had left him. He gazed at Emily's wonderful sapphire eyes once more, tears streaming out of them. His vision began to blur. "Emily, I love you."  
"Alex."  
"Goodbye, Emily," he struggled out, gasping for one more breath. "I love you."  
"Alex, no!" she cried, tears gushing from her sapphire eyes.  
Then with one last breath his vision turned to darkness and he faded away into eternity.