- [ ] Have Morthadim have a dead wife. Alex, when he sees Morthadim's life in vision, sees Morthadim's wife's death.  
- [ ] How does Morthadim control the creatures? Abisusolas weakens them to outside influence. Morthadim's power to reform creatures he's killed comes at a price. For every creature he creates through this process, he has to kill two because the powers of Corudus can only take.  
- [ ] During part of Morthadim's backstory in the 4th book, Alex sees how Morthadim takes control of people. He kills two people or creatures, then uses one of their essences to make the other one reform. Daniel dies shortly after Alex sees this flashback.  
- [ ] When Daniel is killed, he disintegrates and his skeleton falls to the ground. They then realize what happened. Alex releases Daniel after this happens, as they have recently found out it was possible. Daniel's last words: "I've been dead for a while now. Years even. Thank you."  
- [ ] In reference to the corudus: They're not people. They died a long time ago. Now empty shells are all that's left of them. The creatures closest to being like us are the Gorcin, and that's because they're alive. Their society is just a warrior caste. Almost all of the others are victims of dark magic.  
- [ ] They found a way to destroy Morthadim's spell over creatures towards the end of the book, after Alex's visions. The creature lasts a couple of moments afterwards and thanks them, humanizing the creature.  
- [ ] Ulysses Brontes' last words, "It is finished."  
- [ ] ‎have Morthadim twist his sword after he stabs the Chancellor, but not after Alex. With Alex he stabs him and quickly takes it out. Then Emily fires a single arrow at him, which he deflects. Then all of the archers of Fort Gyrin aim and fire at him. He retreats and doesn't finish off Alex. Emily and Demetria rush to him. Demetria starts to heal him, but he blacks out and the book ends. In reality, he becomes comatose because of it. The next book is from Emily's point of view the 1st two chapters, then goes to Alex's point of view and the spiritual aspect of the book is fully added. Alex fades in and out of life.  
- [ ] when Morthadim goes to battle he has a skull mask or helmet on  
- [ ] Morthadim is an ancient praevaltus dark-elf. His original name is Lunisian (Son of the moon). Lunisian bathed in the waters of enhancement (Praeveros) in the Eternal (Aedais) Mountains near Mathoni. It's where all Praevaltus Elves were originally created. He became a dark-elf soon after when he entered the Fires of Torbanum (Abisusolas) within Torbanum. Even after that, he entered Malefik Aldun (Devil Deep) in Wraithmoor and became Morthadim (Death), Niduxan te Torbanum (General of Hell)  
- [ ] have Alex have visions of Morthadim's past during the 4th book. He sees 5 visions. 1. An Elari being born during a lunar eclipse of all three moons and being named Lunisian. 2. Lunisian as a young Elari going to Praeveros. 3. Lunisian becoming a Tenilari and killing his parents as well as destroying Nebris Durlas. 4. Lunisian becoming Morthadim in Malefik Aldun. He sees Moxian and watches as Lunisian emerges from Malefik Aldun as Morthadim. That is when he realizes that it's Morthadim. 5. Morthadim taking over Torbanum. He actually kills both Lazera and Aveslio, but brings them back to life with his dark magic, giving them the ability to reform. Alex counsels with Cyril and Athanius Pryor about all of this.  
- [ ] Have Morthadim have control of the north after book 4.  
- [ ] Siege Torbanum 3/4 of the way through the book. This is where the rest of the book takes place, up to Alex being stabbed.  
- [ ] add in a tsunami in Midian lake that destroys Tide's End and the Resort  
- [ ] Have Alex go back to his home in Tirvalis. The house is untouched and dust covers everything. Flashback, "So many memories. I've forgotten so much Emily." This is during the siege of Tirvalis on their way to siege Torbanum. They are able to protect it, but not before much of it is destroyed. ”We’re fighting for our home this time, Emily. Our actual home.”  
- [ ] After his son is killed, Alex has doubts about Verithinus. It cumulates in him talking with Verithinus himself and asking why he allowed his son to die. He becomes very emotional in that scene. Drag it out possibly over multiple books.