It begins with the siege of Tirvalis. Their victory there halts the army of Morthadim. Lazera and Voralis meet and discuss a cease-fire. Morthadim keeps everything north of Midium lake. Emily has just given birth to twins.  
A few years pass and Alex and Emily are raising their twin boys in the rebuilt Tirvalis. It has been rebuilt as a fortress. Although the war is halted, there is no peace. It is a cold war. Alex is now 27 years old and his twins are nearly four years old.  
One night, Alex takes Emily out for a date, leaving the twins at home with his mother-in-law. They come home to find the door broken open. They both rush in to find Erima clutching one of the twins. The other is by her side, sobbing. A tenimesor (dark reaper) had stabbed the child with a poisoned blade. There was no cure for the poison. Alex and Emily have to watch their child slowly and painfully die over the course of the week. There is nothing that they can do. Alex never stops trying to find a cure, until their child passes into the night. Little kids, you love them in a special way.  
They bury their child. A month passes and Alex and Emily grow apart. They begin to fight but are brought back together by their love for Theren, their only child. They reconcile.  
Alex begins to have visions of the life of an Elari named Lunisian seen through the eyes of Verithinus. He travels back to Pridurlas to seek the guidance of the Order of Prophecy. Emily and his son come with them. Erima does as well.  
Morthadim's army attacks Midium and Tirvalis. Tirvalis is destroyed this time. Midium barely survives. Pridurlas prepares to strike back by attacking Torbanum itself. Before they can, Xurex and his Khegra forces are able to sneak into Pridurlas itself due to the help of a traitor. They were only a distraction. Sam and Alex, after dispatching Xurex, find Voralis bleeding out. He is able to mutter something about a traitor. "Who did this?" "A traitor, cloaked in black. It is finished." He then dies. Sam curses. After Voralis's funeral, led by the Oracle, Sam becomes the leader of Pridurlas. They begin to search for a traitor. It ends up being Veridex, who escapes after fatally stabbing Colidan. Alex comforts the dying Colidan and they have yet another funeral.  
The Chancellor and Sam lead the army to battle against Torbanum. Alex and Emily come with them. Alex could not convince Emily to stay behind with their son, who would be cared for by Erima in the City. The Vistes even tags along in the army.  
Along the way, Alex's visions reveal that Lunisian is Morthadim, the leader of the monsters. It is revealed how he controls his armies. Due to this knowledge, the Oracle and the House of Magic find a way to break Morthadim's spell. They successfully do this to a creature along the route to Torbanum, which thanks them as it dies.  
They have a few battles along the path. At Torbanum, the battle begins with Morthadim himself wearing a skull helmet and a black cloak. He wears an armor of bones. He has a large scythe weapon in hand. He challenged the Chancellor to battle and kills him. Alex then leads the charge and duels Morthadim in single combat. Alex is stabbed by Morthadim’s scythe, which releases a cloud of black particles. (Morthadim is trying to do what he did to Veridex, but for some reason, Alex is able to fight it off) In response, Emily orders an arsenal of arrows at Morthadim, who retreats back into Torbanum. Emily catches Alex, who, after a short, emotional conversation, closes his eyes. The book ends.  
  
Veridex POV  
The perspective of the traitor who doesn't know he's a traitor. He loses consciousness and has holes in his memory. He believes he's going insane.  
  
Caspian's POV