Alexs POV  
It begins with the marriage of Alex and Emily.  
Morthadim’s forces are on the move. The city of Cardellia has been destroyed and Lanuvia is under siege. Beckett Finn plays a major role in the fall of Cardellia, but not by choice. The Aurusoren is back. Reports have it breathing fire. They are disturbed and perturbed by this news.  
An army is dispatched to Laken to help support including part of an army from Aramus. A group of a hundred soldiers, including Alex, Emily, Almedin, Jaise, Sam, Mexas, Nerissa, Nadaria, Vermich, Colidan, and Evolan, are shown an underground system of tunnels created by Pridurlas over the past few thousand years. They lead to the Three Bears in Midium, outside of Tirvalis, the outpost in Prisuvia, The Treasured Crown in Sulicus, Monticus, Detymis, Lanuvia, and Pamorius. They enter these tunnels and head to Lanuvia.  
Morthadim, the Necromancer of Wraithmoria as he is known in the book, found out about these tunnels before the 1st book. In response, he put a creature into its depths. The nightmare stalker. It thrives in the dark and is able to put out flames with its breath. Throughout their journey in the tunnels, by torchlight, this creature stalks them. It comes close, every time turning out their lights. Satilius breathes fire to scare it away. They have Satilius at the front along with Averama. In the back is Jaise’s dragon, Decax.  
They reach a large cavern just north of Midium Lake. The ground is very thin below their feet. In places, it has fallen into a large chasm below. The cavern is lit by torches all around it. Multiple tunnels lead out of it to many different places. This cavern is the only way south through the tunnels. The only other way to access the tunnels south of there is through one of the outposts or the tunnel from the first book at Tirvalis.  
They exit the cavern through a tunnel on the left. Somewhere along this path, they encounter the Nightmare Beast again. This time, they trap it in a small cavern. They fight it and are able to destroy it. It's hideous. It's similar to a dragon.  
They continue along the path and make it to the outpost in Lanuvia, but they're too late. The enemy just broke through the outer wall. Lanuvia has an inner wall to which all the civilians have already been evacuated. The city guard retreats to the inner wall, at least those that are still alive. They begin to evacuate the civilians into the tunnels as the siege continues. The inner wall does not last long before an Aurusoren arrives and breaks through it.  
Alex immediately recognizes that this is not the same Aurusoren. It is much shorter and breathing fire. Alex and the army buy just enough time for the civilians to escape before they are nearly overrun. As they escape into the tunnels, they destroy the outpost so they cannot be pursued. The city guard along with a few from the army lead the civilians south to the capital.  
Alex and the others head to Pamorius, which they received news is also under siege. Another army has already arrived there. They reach the city in a matter of a few days due to the magical ability of the tunnels to shorten the distance.  
They arrive in a city under an intense siege. Lazera and Aveslio are present with the original Aurusoren. They are able to hold the outer wall for a couple more days until the other Aurusoren arrives. Together, the two Aurusoren destroy the front gate. Colidan and Evolan, with help from Nerissa, Vermich, and Averama are able to take down the fire-breathing Aurusoren while Sam and Almedin, with help from Jaise and both Jaise's dragon and Satilius, take down the other. Alex, Emily, and Nadaria are involved in an intense battle with Lazera and Aveslio. When the two Aurusorens are defeated and Lazera senses defeat, she and Aveslio fly away.  
Alex and the others then take shelter behind the inner wall as the citizens continue to be evacuated. The next day, due to the overwhelming force of the Army of Death, they have to abandon Pamorius. However, this time, they are unable to destroy the outpost before the monsters get in. They blow a tunnel, but it only slows them down.  
They make their stand at the nexus, where the tunnels connect south. As they hold off the army, the civilians are able to escape unharmed.  
Alex is worn out. When one of Evolan's bombs causes a large portion of the ground to fall into the chasm below, Alex gets an idea. He, Evolan, Emily, and others are able to place an array of explosives around the central section of the cavern, which would cause a large portion of the cavern to fall into the chasm below and inhibit the monster army from continuing. In addition, they would be able to destroy a majority of the army if they did it right.  
The army arrives and they lure them into the central area. A small group of soldiers becomes trapped on the wrong side of the army, led by Vermich. Alex hesitates to set off the explosives. Vermich commands him to do it. He sets off the explosives. The center of the cavern, with the majority of the army, falls into the chasm. Alex mounts Satilius to go rescue those on the other side. He lands beside Vermich, who is fighting a bunch of maluculi. After a short confrontation, the maluculi maul Vermich. With one last burst, Vermich blasts them away. This uses all of his energy, making him defenseless. The blast destroys a portion of the ground and Vermich falls through. Alex lunges for Vermich and catches his arm on the ledge. Satilius struggles to keep monsters from getting to them. Alex strains to bring Vermich up, but Vermich's grasp falters and after a few muttered words, he falls into the chasm. Alex tries to get Satilius to go after him, but it is too late. Alex wasn't able to save any of the soldiers that were trapped on the other side. He himself had to retreat before the monsters killed him too.  
Mournfully, they retreated back to Pridurlas, where the story ends. Emily is pregnant.  
  
Veridex POV  
His perspective begins with the fall of Cardellia.  
  
Caspian's POV  
His perspective involves another failed assassination attempt.