- Vilaca: A hairy cow-like herd animal that lives in mountain valleys. Similar to a yak. A subspecies of these animals with shorter hair live outside of the mountains. The mountain vilaca and valley vilaca. They were created when Daivara was.
- Carvulus/a: A little deer-like animal that inhabits the forests of Aramus. Carvuli are the stags while Carvulae are the does. They were created when Daivara was.
- Lunaepus: The moon wolf is a long, wolf-like animal that hunts the carvulus. They are the apex predator of the forest. Only dragons and dratoculi can challenge them. They were created when Daivara was.
- Solapuila: The sun eagle is a large meter long, predatory bird that lives in Aramus. It hunts rodents and fish. They were created when Daivara was.
- Lamtra: A half-meter-long lizard similar to a bearded dragon. They come in many varieties of color and are everywhere. They are like the raccoons of the planet.
- Dragon/Drato: A large, winged reptilian intelligent predator, which is 24 feet long on average. They communicate through telepathy but are also able to learn to speak. Some breathe fire, others ice, among other things. They are the primary species on Daivara, mainly living in the northern hemisphere. When humans arrived they were organized, but mainly tribal, living in caves and rough shelters. They are able to regrow their tails if they fall off. They lay 7 eggs on average every three to five years. They do not watch over their eggs as their eggs are notoriously hard to puncture. Their scales come in a variety of colors to attract mates. They don’t need to blend in with their environment, although there are dragons that do. Thousands of years ago, they were transported to Aramus from the Seven Rings to guard the forces of Praevaltus and Corudus. Over time, many were corrupted by Corudus.
- Dratoculus: the Dratoculus or “Little Dragon” is a much smaller and less intelligent species similar to Dragons. They are more commonly known as drakes. They grow to be about five to seven feet in length. They are similar to earth’s Tuatara. They roam Aramus and make their homes in underground dugouts. Dragons are known to eat them from time to time. They are resistant to blasts of heat and ice similar to Dragons. Unlike dragons, their scales match their environment. They were transported to Aramus at the same time as the dragons.
- Sorenculi: the Sorenculi or “Little Serpents,” more commonly known as anguls, are small versions of the aurusoren. In reality, they aren’t really small as they are snakes that can grow up to fifteen feet long. Their homes are in underground dugouts. They can be quite venomous depending on the type. The golden desert angul is the most venomous. The green forest angul is similar to a boa constrictor.
- Canguls: Serpent-like reptilian creatures with hound-like faces and black and brown scales. They resemble vipers. They are highly venomous. Their venom can kill someone in under half an hour.
- Alverisum: Small, dragon-like creatures that resemble lions. They have dragon wings and can breathe fire. Their barbed tail is venomous. They are extremely rare. Aveslio is the only notable example of one. They are tied to the aspects of nature, power, and transportation.
- Aurusoren: The Aurusoren, also known as the Dratosoren, are large, golden serpents that inhabited mainland Aramus. They are thought to be extinct save one, which is controlled by Morthadim through dark magic. They became endangered due to competition with dragons for their meals. Dragons can fly. Their scales are impenetrable and their venom is highly corrosive. They can expel a toxungen (toxin) a great distance. On average, they were 300 feet in length. There are very few in existence now. They were transported from the Seven Rings at the same time as the dragons.
- Maesoren: The Maesoren (Sea Serpent) is a near relative of the Aurusoren. It’s a semiaquatic serpent that lives near the coasts of Aramus. They can grow up to 250 ft but grow to an average of 150 ft. Their diet mainly consists of fish and other marine animals. They will eat just about anything though, including other maesorens and small dragons that venture offshore. They lay their eggs in shallow water. This shallow water is where their offspring grow to maturity, which can be up to twelve years. They then head out to sea. There’s a large amount of these creatures in Phoenix Bay. They are also able to move across land. They must breathe air, so they stay near the surface of the water. They can hold their breath for over an hour. They sleep in shallow water, because of this, maesorens don’t venture far from shore. They were also transported from the Seven Rings.