-Book 1: The Seven Rings  
~Plot  
•Michael is lost in his thoughts but keeps coming back to an argument over pizza that he had with his brother Hunter the night before. His mother interrupts his train of thought and asks him to go to the store. At the store, he picks out Hunter's favorite cereal as a peace offering. He runs into Miranda, whom he has been dating. On Michael's way out he is deep in thought. Shortly before he catches up to Miranda, Michael disappears and finds himself in a cave. He is unable to contact anyone from back home. He discovers that he can create things by thinking them into existence and sails down a river to the outside world.  
•He meets Matthew, who appears to be a vagrant wanderer. Matthew introduces Michael to how this world works and some of its history. He offers to accompany Michael and help him learn to manipulate the world around him. They share Michael's bag of chocolate animal crackers.  
•Michael and Matthew stay in North Gate for three days. Matt teaches Michael during this time. They stay in case Michael accidentally brings someone into the world. That afternoon, Michael remarks about how he misses Miranda. Matt warns Michael about the possibility of bringing Miranda into the world if she is thinking about him at the same time. Michael thanks him for warning him and tries to keep Miranda out of his mind to avoid it. After three days, they take a boat to Libertas Arcem, the capital of Borealis. Matt sets up a meeting with Berenger, the leader of Borealis, and the rebellion. They wait outside the city to the west while they wait. They run across a group of imperial soldiers. Matthew tells Michael to hide and disappears. Michael climbs a tree and creates branches around himself. This draws the attention of the soldiers as they watched him climb the tree. They cut down the tree and take Michael captive. He escapes with the help of Matt after Michael causes significant damage to the patrol's camp. Michael sees the soldiers send a messenger bird. Matt warns that Michael may be on the Imperium's radar now.  
•Back on Earth, Miranda looks back to see that Michael has vanished. She first thinks it is a joke and searches for him. She quickly begins to fear that Michael abandoned her and searches frantically, calling Michael's mother and speaking with an assistant manager who shows her footage of Michael disappearing. She buys Michael's groceries and takes them to Michael's mother after breaking down in tears. She shows the video to his mother and soon returns home. She continuously tries to call Michael, to no avail. She leaves a sad voicemail and cries herself to sleep. The next evening, she wishes to be with Michael, but nothing happens. She just breaks down.  
•Michael and Matt hide in a cave of Matt's creation closer to Liberty Citadel/City. They discuss what to do next. They speak with Berenger. He offers them limited aid. Matt mentions Aeturnus and Berenger says something around the lines of Aeturnus being selfish, but finding him may be a necessity. Matt already knows where he is. Barnabas, one of Berenger's guards decides to accompany them. Berenger will look out for anyone coming from North Gate and send word if there is. They create a piece of parchment that when sealed will fly quickly to Matt wherever he is like a messenger bird without the bird. They leave south. Mike misses Miranda but quickly thinks of something else.  
•On Earth, 8 days after Michael has gone missing, Miranda lays in bed with an empty box of tissues. She misses him and tries to call him one more time. Again, it goes straight to voicemail. She closes her eyes, wraps her arms around her knees, and sobs. Her bed becomes stone and she opens her eyes to darkness. She crawls herself to the sound of water. Light appears. She sits at the edge of the water and breaks down.  
•  
• toward the kingdom of Regnulum. Along the way, Matthew teaches Michael how to think in the 7 Rings.  
  
  
  
Book 2: Immortal Deception (Thoughts of Deception) Power of Thought  
  
  
  
  
Book 3: The Well of Wishes