- Aramian Blackjack (Tiratal)
	- The deck of cards had thirty-three cards. There were three different suites with seven cards, a king, a queen, and a vistes. There were three other special cards of each suite with a dragon on it. The three suites were in the shape of a spear head, a shield, and a castle. The spear head was red, the shield blue, and the castle black. Wraize passed out seven cards to each of the players. A second deck of cards, which had twenty-seven cards. There were nine cards with the number one on them. Three of those cards were positive one, three were negative one, and three were both positive and negative one. There were similar cards for the number two and three. In the game of tiratal, a two to four player game, each of the special cards had a special ability. The dragon card discarded the card below it and, if it was a special card, undid the action it took. The vistes card could reveal the top three cards to the player and choose to shuffle the deck. The king card could change the sign of the entire set. The queen card could skip the next player’s turn. The goal of tiratal was to get to the number twenty-one. The game started by revealing the top card of the deck. If the card was both positive and negative, the first player decided which sign the card would take. The players must place down a card each turn or fold. This is done by placing a card from their own hand or flipping the top card of the deck. If they go over twenty-one, they lose. The next player then has the chance to lower the deck. If no one is able to lower the deck to twenty-one, it’s a draw. The person to get the deck to twenty-one without going over wins. A player must win a total of three sets in order to win the round. Each player could only use the seven cards they were given throughout the course of the round. If a player used all their cards, they could only flip over the top card on their turn. No player is allowed to draw more cards into their hand after a set was over. The winner of a set went first and the deck was shuffled at the beginning of each set.
- Aramian Solitaire
	- This uses a deck of 33 cards. The three suites of spear, shield, and castle. Each suite has 7 number cards, a Dragon, Queen, King, and Vistes. It is played like regular solitaire, only with 6 rows instead of 7. The Vistes is the top card, followed by the king, the queen, the dragon, and then the number 7 descending to 1. The goal is the same as regular solitaire.