There are 17 Tenimesors.  
Each tenimesor has access to three powers.  
Corudus’s Virosa’s Decay Animals and Healing Factor.  
Corudus’s Suffering
Vecormus’s Virosa's Internal  
  
Vecormus’s Virosa's Internal is used to take the life force from one being and give it to another. This ties the person to the power of energy and sustains their life. It also causes them to become more animal like which opens them up to manipulation by those who have powers over animals (Praevaltus’s Alter Animals and Corudus’s Decay Animals) and those who can influence another’s mind (Praevaltus’s Inception and Corudus’s Plant Feelings). This new weakness in conjunction with the Tenimesor’s ability to cause suffering allows these people to be easily controlled, although they still have agency. They mainly do what they want to. After a while of being controlled, however, their thoughts become more aligned with the one controlling them. The tenimesor who corrupted this person can access their mind from across the world. Distance isn’t a problem.  
  
Once the tenimesor that controls them is killed they are freed, however, they are susceptible to others with those powers to a lesser extent. In order to break them from the cycle of rebirth caused by the well of energy, someone with the Praevaltus power of healing injuries and the Corudus Power of Affliction needs to break their connection. There is no natural occurrence of someone with both of these powers. On top of that, they need to be able to manipulate them slightly through Inception or Plant Feelings to find and break the connection. After the connection is broken, the next time they die, they truly die.  
  
How do you kill a tenimesor?  
Tenimesors are extremely difficult to kill. Not only do they have a healing factor, but you can behead them, and they will just get back up. The tenimesors were created by Morthadim in the same way they corrupt others. Separate their connection to the well of energy, and they can die. Using shapeshifting, they’ve shrunk and moved all of their vitals into their very bones in such a way that they can reform after losing any part of their body, head included. They typically pick up their head anyway if they can to avoid having to reform it. It has a certain effect on their victims. They can remotely destroy any part of their body they leave behind when they reform it.  
Normally, breaking their bones and destroying those vitals still isn’t enough to kill them. They can be killed without severing their connection to energy, they’ll just come back, and it’s extremely difficult to do. Sever their connection to energy and completely destroy their bodies to kill them for good. Not even a finger can be left. I suggest fire. This will kill every cell and turn them into ashes. Another way is to push them into a portal over a volcano or something else that will destroy them.