- [ ] Alex's left side is corrupted in Torbanum. The only reason he's able to control himself is that only part of his left head was forced into Abisusolas. He's fixed at Aurusluxen. Everyone has a dark side.  
- [ ] POVS - Alex and Emily, perhaps Amacus as well  
- [ ] Have the Drakon in the 2nd series as well, but freeze it as it died the last time in the 1st series like Echidna was. Both Drakons frozen in the last or 2nd to last books. Have them become unfrozen in the 2nd series and come back. They are killed again before the final battle and siege at Fort Gyrin. Have them die at the siege of the capital.  
- [ ] Alex is partially corrupted by Abisusolas in the 6th book. He has a good and an evil side that fight against each other. This was caused by part of his body being forced into Abisusolas. They quickly take him to Aurusluxen in Phoenix Bay and cure him. They fight Morthadim there as well. Half of their group heads back to Nindurlas while they take him to Aurusluxen in order to warn the fort. Emily goes with Alex, even after being told by him to go with the others because he doesn't want to hurt her.  
- [ ] have Alex's son die slowly over the course of a month from his wounds from being stabbed by Morthadim. Alex is changed by the loss of his young son and doesn't recover from it for quite awhile. He becomes hardened and part of the change never fully goes away. Eventually, he turns almost completely back to who he was beforehand. During this period is the first time you see Alex and Emily fight and disagree  
- [ ] When Morthadim kills one of Alex’s sons, he was trying to corrupt both of his twins and bring one of them back as his minion. After Alex’s son supposedly died, Morthadim succeeds by taking the body and killing another human. He then sends Alex’s son to kill Alex. It’s a harsh scene. When Alex’s son dies again, he becomes himself for the last moments of his life. “I’m sorry, dad.” “It’s okay, you can rest now.” “Thank you, dad.”