1.	Toolbox
### Discovery Writers vs. Architect (Outline) Writers
#### Discovery
•	Story tells itself, surprises you.
•	Compulsive meandering
•	Get to know characters well
•	Just the way it works
•	Figure out characters better
#### Architect
•	Story doesn’t meander, less wandering
•	Know where you’re going
•	Better grip
•	More organization
•	Foreshadowing, Good endings
•	Weaker characters
#### Some books are better with different things.
###### Discovery write the characters
•	Create a monologue in 1st person of characters thoughts
•	Stream of Consciousness
•	There are many different ways to do this
###### Outline the Story
###### Listen to other writers’ styles and try their ways and see if they work
#### 2.	Genre Fiction
##### Tropes
##### Fantasy
•	Hero’s Journey
•	Unbreakable sword
•	Wise old wizard
•	Orphaned hero
•	Mentor always dies
•	Animal companion
•	Chosen One
##### Science Fiction
•	It’s off the charts
•	Aliens aren’t people
•	Evil empires
•	Aliens try to conquer us
•	Spaceships breaking down
•	Advanced tech
Nothing wrong with tropes. They’re useful tools, but don’t be slaves to them. Find a balance between using them and inverting them
Tropes do not equal fantasy or science fiction
Elves does not mean fantasy
What makes it one of these
	Not in our everyday world
	Speculative
	Not in the scope of reality
	Supernatural elements
Why the whys of the tropes and what you can gain from it
What emotion will this evoke in my readers.
They can do everything other literature can do.
	You can find romance, mystery, and adventure
These are the only genres not bound to what they are.
“It is the genre where you can do all of this stuff. You can be literary, you can have action adventure, you can do all of these things plus you can have dragons.
Why not write the genre where you can write whatever you want?
#### 3.	What should you write?/Using this Class
Treat this as a fresh start. Write a couple thousand words a week. 3,000 or so. That’s about 6 hours per week. Figure out your writing speed.
Do this like you’re going to be a professional. Which is my plan.
This could be the literary equivalent of going and exercising. It’s good for you and you like it.
You can do it. Writers can make money. The average person knows only 5 to 6 writers. It’s dangerous. It’s a risk, but you can make a living off of it. Dedicate 10 years, writing 6 hours per week. Produce a novel per year. Hone it for the next 10 years to get the chance that the job will pan out. Chances after 10 years increase. 
Get a writing group.
The chances are nearly as bad. It is wise to think of a backup. Stable job.
#### 4.	Workshop
Writing Groups
	J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis were in a writing group together.
	Do it the right way.
		They will try to ruin your book if not in the right direction.
			If a discovery writer and an outline writer can mess with each others stories. More dangerous for discovery writers.
1.	Be descriptive instead of proscriptive.
a.	Don’t try to add scenes, but describe things you’re confused at.
b.	It’s good for a professional editor to be proscriptive, they should know what they are doing.
2.	Positivity
a.	Give criticism, but first do positive
i.	Tells you what you’re doing right so that they keep the good stuff.
ii.	Keep in the good jokes, take out the bad.
3.	Discussion
a.	Be willing to discuss and offer your opinion.
i.	If three people think a joke falls flat, that’s useful.
ii.	If 5 people laughed at it and one didn’t like it, probably should keep it.
4.	Drop it.
a.	If you have a pet peeve about something, learn to drop it after you have shared it.
Being Workshopped
1.	Be quiet
a.	Don’t do anything. Don’t defend, don’t exclaim.
b.	Treat the writing group as a test audience. See their reactions.
c.	Get feedback, you are a fly on the wall watching a discussion of your book.
d.	Don’t try to convince them that you’re a great writer.
i.	The people who like your books least is your best friends. They read the bad versions.
e.	Save questions for the end.
f.	Generally, take a third of the comments of things to change.
i.	You don’t have to listen to all the comments. It is yours after all.
#### Q&A:
Write the book you are passionate about. Write what you wish was out there. Find the whole. Write what you haven’t seen.
	Write whatever you want. When you are the artist, think about writing the most awesome book you can write of that style.
	“Once I’m done, I lock the artist in the closet, I grab the manuscript, and I run away cackling. And then I find every feasible method of exploiting that as possible in order to get more food for the artist so they can go do their thing.”

Discovery is writing their drafts as their outlines.
	Don’t get into a revision loop. Finish it first!
See what you can learn from Discovery writing. See what you can learn from Outlining.
Worldbuilding disease of creating a perfect world. You need to get out a book or two per year. “If you spend 20 years worldbuilding, you’re not going to have a book for 21 years, probably.” Learn to speed it up.
“Almost every outline writer I know uses the outline as a changing skeleton.”
Very few don’t change their outline.
Two things to try:
1.	Have points of an outline and discovery write to them.
2.	Have a flexible outline and discovery write the characters as you write. Still rely on a changing outline.
 

