They had two options, they could go out the side door away from them, which was the smart thing to do, or if they were feeling daring, they could run out the front door like a bunch of idiots. Nerissa suggested the former, although Ryan jokingly favored the latter. It was a little late for decisions as the lizard lady slammed open the front door, and the lion jumped through the window, which burst open on impact. She pointed at the five of them, and the winged beast charged as they darted for the other door. It slammed into the table they were just at, sending splintering wood in every direction. The creature quickly recuperated and turned towards them. It then proceeded to shoot a burst of flame that barely flew past their heads as they hit the floor. It wholly dissolved the exit. They bounced up before running through the now gaping hole in the wall. The lion roared behind them at their escape. The last thing Alex heard from Tide’s End was someone screaming, “Get them!”  
The winged lion was hot on their tail as they sprinted off through the Resort and towards the town. That’s when Chris stopped. Alex looked over his shoulder as Chris faced the beast. Alex urged him on, “Chris, we need to get out of here!”  
“Alex, go!” He shouted back. “I can hold him off!”  
“What?!” Alex exclaimed, refusing the thought of leaving his friend behind. “How can you hold that back? It’s a lion that breathes fire!”  
“Alex, just go!” He said as he brought out two cylindrical pipes with a reed at the end of each pipe. Along the pipes were a line of finger holes. Chris brought both of them to his mouth and started playing. Out of the pipes came a beautiful melancholic sound as both separate pipes played simultaneously. Alex couldn’t help but stop and listen.  
He glanced over at the lion. The creature’s wings expanded as he began to take flight. Just as he began to rise, he seemed to get caught on something and fell face-first to the ground. As Alex looked closely, he realized a vine had wrapped around its front left paw. Before the beast even tried to get back up to untangle himself, over fifteen vines emerged from the ground and entangled him. Alex’s jaw dropped. Chris stopped playing the pipes, then turned and looked at Alex. He said, “Okay, that won’t hold him forever, so let’s get going.”  
Without another word, they continued beelining towards Tirvalis. They hurried past the Resort’s walls and into lower Tirvalis. They caught up to their friends, who had stopped when they heard Chris playing his pipes. Alex looked back to see the lion breaking out of its ivy prison. It was spewing fire everywhere and scorching all the grass around it, blackening it. As they turned right towards the central hill, the winged lion disappeared behind the wall, still launching torrents of flame in all directions.